docs/operator-manual/metrics.md, before:

# Metrics

Argo CD exposes different sets of Prometheus metrics per server.

## Application Controller Metrics
Metrics about applications. Scraped at the `argocd-metrics:8082/metrics` endpoint.

| Metric | Type | Description |
|--------|:----:|-------------|
| `argocd_app_info` | gauge | Information about Applications. It contains labels such as `sync_status` and `health_status` that reflect the application state in Argo CD. |
| `argocd_app_k8s_request_total` | counter | Number of Kubernetes requests executed during application reconciliation |
| `argocd_app_labels` | gauge | Argo Application labels converted to Prometheus labels. Disabled by default. See section below about how to enable it. |
| `argocd_app_reconcile` | histogram | Application reconciliation performance. |
| `argocd_app_sync_total` | counter | Counter for application sync history |
| `argocd_cluster_api_resource_objects` | gauge | Number of k8s resource objects in the cache. |
| `argocd_cluster_api_resources` | gauge | Number of monitored Kubernetes API resources. |
| `argocd_cluster_cache_age_seconds` | gauge | Cluster cache age in seconds. |
| `argocd_cluster_connection_status` | gauge | The k8s cluster current connection status. |
| `argocd_cluster_events_total` | counter | Number of processes k8s resource events. |
| `argocd_cluster_info` | gauge | Information about cluster. |
| `argocd_kubectl_exec_pending` | gauge | Number of pending kubectl executions |
| `argocd_kubectl_exec_total` | counter | Number of kubectl executions |
| `argocd_redis_request_duration` | histogram | Redis requests duration. |
| `argocd_redis_request_total` | counter | Number of redis requests executed during application reconciliation |

If you use Argo CD with many application and project creation and deletion,
the metrics page will keep in cache your application and project's history.
If you are having issues because of a large number of metrics cardinality due
to deleted resources, you can schedule a metrics reset to clean the
history with an application controller flag. Example:
`--metrics-cache-expiration="24h0m0s"`.

### Exposing Application labels as Prometheus metrics

There are use-cases where Argo CD Applications contain labels that are desired to be exposed as Prometheus metrics.
Some examples are:

* Having the team name as a label to allow routing alerts to specific receivers
* Creating dashboards broken down by business units

As the Application labels are specific to each company, this feature is disabled by default. To enable it, add the
`--metrics-application-labels` flag to the Argo CD application controller.

The example below will expose the Argo CD Application labels `team-name` and `business-unit` to Prometheus:

    containers:
    - command:
      - argocd-application-controller
      - --metrics-application-labels
      - team-name
      - --metrics-application-labels
      - business-unit

In this case, the metric would look like:

```
# TYPE argocd_app_labels gauge
argocd_app_labels{label_business_unit="bu-id-1",label_team_name="my-team",name="my-app-1",namespace="argocd",project="important-project"} 1
argocd_app_labels{label_business_unit="bu-id-1",label_team_name="my-team",name="my-app-2",namespace="argocd",project="important-project"} 1
argocd_app_labels{label_business_unit="bu-id-2",label_team_name="another-team",name="my-app-3",namespace="argocd",project="important-project"} 1
```

## API Server Metrics
Metrics about API Server API request and response activity (request totals, response codes, etc...).
Scraped at the `argocd-server-metrics:8083/metrics` endpoint.

| Metric | Type | Description |
|--------|:----:|-------------|
| `argocd_redis_request_duration` | histogram | Redis requests duration. |
| `argocd_redis_request_total` | counter | Number of Kubernetes requests executed during application reconciliation. |
| `grpc_server_handled_total` | counter | Total number of RPCs completed on the server, regardless of success or failure. |
| `grpc_server_msg_sent_total` | counter | Total number of gRPC stream messages sent by the server. |

## Repo Server Metrics
Metrics about the Repo Server.
Scraped at the `argocd-repo-server:8084/metrics` endpoint.

| Metric | Type | Description |
|--------|:----:|-------------|
| `argocd_git_request_duration_seconds` | histogram | Git requests duration seconds. |
| `argocd_git_request_total` | counter | Number of git requests performed by repo server |
| `argocd_redis_request_duration_seconds` | histogram | Redis requests duration seconds. |
| `argocd_redis_request_total` | counter | Number of Kubernetes requests executed during application reconciliation. |
| `argocd_repo_pending_request_total` | gauge | Number of pending requests requiring repository lock |

## Prometheus Operator

If using Prometheus Operator, the following ServiceMonitor example manifests can be used.
Add a namespace where Argo CD is installed and change `metadata.labels.release` to the name of label selected by your Prometheus.

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: argocd-metrics
  labels:
    release: prometheus-operator
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: argocd-metrics
  endpoints:
  - port: metrics
```

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: argocd-server-metrics
  labels:
    release: prometheus-operator
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: argocd-server-metrics
  endpoints:
  - port: metrics
```

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: argocd-repo-server-metrics
  labels:
    release: prometheus-operator
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: argocd-repo-server
  endpoints:
  - port: metrics
```

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: argocd-applicationset-controller-metrics
  labels:
    release: prometheus-operator
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: argocd-applicationset-controller
  endpoints:
  - port: metrics
```

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: argocd-dex-server
  labels:
    release: prometheus-operator
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: argocd-dex-server
  endpoints:
    - port: metrics
```

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: argocd-redis-haproxy-metrics
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: argocd-redis-ha-haproxy
  endpoints:
  - port: http-exporter-port
```

For notifications controller, you need to additionally add following: 

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: argocd-notifications-controller
  labels:
    release: prometheus-operator
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: argocd-notifications-controller-metrics
  endpoints:
    - port: metrics
```


## Dashboards

You can find an example Grafana dashboard [here](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/blob/master/examples/dashboard.json) or check demo instance
[dashboard](https://grafana.apps.argoproj.io).

![dashboard](../assets/dashboard.jpg)

Commit message:

Update to Argo CD version 2.11.3

docs/operator-manual/metrics.md, after:

# Metrics

Argo CD exposes different sets of Prometheus metrics per server.

## Application Controller Metrics
Metrics about applications. Scraped at the `argocd-metrics:8082/metrics` endpoint.

| Metric | Type | Description |
|--------|:----:|-------------|
| `argocd_app_info` | gauge | Information about Applications. It contains labels such as `sync_status` and `health_status` that reflect the application state in Argo CD. |
| `argocd_app_k8s_request_total` | counter | Number of Kubernetes requests executed during application reconciliation |
| `argocd_app_labels` | gauge | Argo Application labels converted to Prometheus labels. Disabled by default. See section below about how to enable it. |
| `argocd_app_reconcile` | histogram | Application reconciliation performance. |
| `argocd_app_sync_total` | counter | Counter for application sync history |
| `argocd_cluster_api_resource_objects` | gauge | Number of k8s resource objects in the cache. |
| `argocd_cluster_api_resources` | gauge | Number of monitored Kubernetes API resources. |
| `argocd_cluster_cache_age_seconds` | gauge | Cluster cache age in seconds. |
| `argocd_cluster_connection_status` | gauge | The k8s cluster current connection status. |
| `argocd_cluster_events_total` | counter | Number of processes k8s resource events. |
| `argocd_cluster_info` | gauge | Information about cluster. |
| `argocd_kubectl_exec_pending` | gauge | Number of pending kubectl executions |
| `argocd_kubectl_exec_total` | counter | Number of kubectl executions |
| `argocd_redis_request_duration` | histogram | Redis requests duration. |
| `argocd_redis_request_total` | counter | Number of redis requests executed during application reconciliation |

If you use Argo CD with many application and project creation and deletion,
the metrics page will keep in cache your application and project's history.
If you are having issues because of a large number of metrics cardinality due
to deleted resources, you can schedule a metrics reset to clean the
history with an application controller flag. Example:
`--metrics-cache-expiration="24h0m0s"`.

### Exposing Application labels as Prometheus metrics

There are use-cases where Argo CD Applications contain labels that are desired to be exposed as Prometheus metrics.
Some examples are:

* Having the team name as a label to allow routing alerts to specific receivers
* Creating dashboards broken down by business units

As the Application labels are specific to each company, this feature is disabled by default. To enable it, add the
`--metrics-application-labels` flag to the Argo CD application controller.

The example below will expose the Argo CD Application labels `team-name` and `business-unit` to Prometheus:

    containers:
    - command:
      - argocd-application-controller
      - --metrics-application-labels
      - team-name
      - --metrics-application-labels
      - business-unit

In this case, the metric would look like:

```
# TYPE argocd_app_labels gauge
argocd_app_labels{label_business_unit="bu-id-1",label_team_name="my-team",name="my-app-1",namespace="argocd",project="important-project"} 1
argocd_app_labels{label_business_unit="bu-id-1",label_team_name="my-team",name="my-app-2",namespace="argocd",project="important-project"} 1
argocd_app_labels{label_business_unit="bu-id-2",label_team_name="another-team",name="my-app-3",namespace="argocd",project="important-project"} 1
```

## API Server Metrics
Metrics about API Server API request and response activity (request totals, response codes, etc...).
Scraped at the `argocd-server-metrics:8083/metrics` endpoint.

| Metric | Type | Description |
|--------|:----:|-------------|
| `argocd_redis_request_duration` | histogram | Redis requests duration. |
| `argocd_redis_request_total` | counter | Number of Kubernetes requests executed during application reconciliation. |
| `grpc_server_handled_total` | counter | Total number of RPCs completed on the server, regardless of success or failure. |
| `grpc_server_msg_sent_total` | counter | Total number of gRPC stream messages sent by the server. |
| `argocd_proxy_extension_request_total` | counter | Number of requests sent to the configured proxy extensions. |
| `argocd_proxy_extension_request_duration_seconds` | histogram | Request duration in seconds between the Argo CD API server and the proxy extension backend. |

## Repo Server Metrics
Metrics about the Repo Server.
Scraped at the `argocd-repo-server:8084/metrics` endpoint.

| Metric | Type | Description |
|--------|:----:|-------------|
| `argocd_git_request_duration_seconds` | histogram | Git requests duration seconds. |
| `argocd_git_request_total` | counter | Number of git requests performed by repo server |
| `argocd_git_fetch_fail_total` | counter | Number of git fetch requests failures by repo server |
| `argocd_redis_request_duration_seconds` | histogram | Redis requests duration seconds. |
| `argocd_redis_request_total` | counter | Number of Kubernetes requests executed during application reconciliation. |
| `argocd_repo_pending_request_total` | gauge | Number of pending requests requiring repository lock |

## Prometheus Operator

If using Prometheus Operator, the following ServiceMonitor example manifests can be used.
Add a namespace where Argo CD is installed and change `metadata.labels.release` to the name of label selected by your Prometheus.

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: argocd-metrics
  labels:
    release: prometheus-operator
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: argocd-metrics
  endpoints:
  - port: metrics
```

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: argocd-server-metrics
  labels:
    release: prometheus-operator
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: argocd-server-metrics
  endpoints:
  - port: metrics
```

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: argocd-repo-server-metrics
  labels:
    release: prometheus-operator
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: argocd-repo-server
  endpoints:
  - port: metrics
```

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: argocd-applicationset-controller-metrics
  labels:
    release: prometheus-operator
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: argocd-applicationset-controller
  endpoints:
  - port: metrics
```

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: argocd-dex-server
  labels:
    release: prometheus-operator
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: argocd-dex-server
  endpoints:
    - port: metrics
```

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: argocd-redis-haproxy-metrics
  labels:
    release: prometheus-operator
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: argocd-redis-ha-haproxy
  endpoints:
  - port: http-exporter-port
```

For notifications controller, you need to additionally add following:

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: argocd-notifications-controller
  labels:
    release: prometheus-operator
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: argocd-notifications-controller-metrics
  endpoints:
    - port: metrics
```


## Dashboards

You can find an example Grafana dashboard [here](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/blob/master/examples/dashboard.json) or check demo instance
[dashboard](https://grafana.apps.argoproj.io).

![dashboard](../assets/dashboard.jpg)
